---
title: Lap Cholescystectomy
_template: page
---

#### Cholecystectomy is one of the most commonly performed abdominal surgical procedures.

About 1.2 million gall bladder removal surgeries are performed in the United States every year. Over the last few years, in the quest for an even less invasive surgical technique, single incision laparoscopic surgery has replaced the traditional cholecystectomy. Laparo-endoscopic single site (LESS) cholecystectomy is an evolution in the rapidly advancing field of laparoscopic surgery. This new laparoscopic gallbladder removal procedure offers cosmetic advantages while maintaining the traditional benefits of laparoscopy. 

The procedure of single site laparoscopic cholecystectomy is similar to the traditional laparoscopic surgery, except that the surgeon makes one tiny incision instead of four. In traditional laparoscopic cholecystectomy, four incisions are made in abdomen- one on the rim of navel, one beneath the navel, two beneath the navel and to the right side. Compared to the classic laparoscopic technique, in SILC (Single Incision Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy) the instruments are placed through a single incision. Here, the single umbilical incision is made to remove the gall bladder. The incision is just two centimeters long, and houses a soft port that holds flexible working instruments. The surgery can be performed in less than an hour, and the hospital stay is usually less than two hours. 

The ultimate goal of any surgery is to provide effective results with minimum complications and pain. There is no doubt that best aesthetic results are also kept in consideration while choosing the surgical procedure. With LESS, patients enjoy all the benefits of minimally invasive surgery such as fewer post-operative complications, less pain, a faster recovery, less hospital stay and faster return to work and livelihood. Not to mention, better aesthetic results is another key advantage of LESS.

